Newsletters: add 312 (2024-07-19) (#1788)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2024-07-19-newsletter.md

  signature.  For example, a 2-of-3 scheme creates three keys, any two
  of which can produce a valid signature.  Being _scriptless_, the
  scheme relies entirely on operations external to consensus and the
  blockchain, unlike Bitcoin's built-in scripted threshold signature
  operations (e.g., using `OP_CHECKMULTISIG`).

  Similar to generating a regular Bitcoin private key, each person
  creating a key for scriptless threshold signatures must generate
  a large random-like number without disclosing that number to anyone
  else.  However, each person must also distribute derived shares of
  that number across the other users so that a threshold number of
  them can create a signature if that key is unavailable.  Each user
  must verify that the information they received from every other user
  was generated correctly.  Several key generation protocols for
  performing these steps exist, but they assume the key-generating users
  have access to a communication channel that is encrypted and
  authenticated between individual pairs of users and that also allows
  uncensorable authenticated broadcast from each user to all other

>   users.  The _Chill distributed key generation_ (ChillDKG) protocol

Reviewer: "ChillDKG" is never expanded to "Chill distributed key generation" in either the ML post or the BIP.
```suggestion
  users.  The ChillDKG protocol
```

Author: > Title: ChillDKG: Distributed Key Generation for FROST

https://github.com/BlockstreamResearch/bip-frost-dkg

Reviewer 2: I had never thought about expanding ChillDKG, seems more like a name to me.

Author: I'm very confused, but I'll remove the expansion.

  combines a well-known key generation algorithm for FROST with
  additional modern cryptographic primitives and simple algorithms to
  provide the necessary secure, authenticated, and provably uncensored
  communication.

  Encryption and authentication between participants starts with an

>   [elliptic curve diffie-hellman][ecdh] (ECDH) exchange.  Proof of

Reviewer: I know how we feel about uppercase names around here, but this still seems a bit egregious. (It's also inconsistent as all previous newsletters had "Diffie–Hellman" in uppercase.)
```suggestion
  [Elliptic-curve Diffie--Hellman][ecdh] (ECDH) exchange.  Proof of
```

Author: My decision years ago to go lowercase on eponyms in protocol names was a weird one, for sure.  However, it seems increasingly inconsistent to me to do it only in some cases rather than all cases, so this is an attempt to be more consistent going forward.

How about I leave this as is for this newsletter, but if you feel strongly about it, you open an issue and we can discuss changing the general policy (plus optionally revising already published content).  If you do that, please @ me on the issue so I see it.

  non-censorship is obtained by each participant using their base key to
  sign a transcript of the session from its start to its end, where the
  scriptless threshold public key is produced.  Before accepting the
  threshold public key as correct, each participant verifies every other
  participant's signed session transcript.

>   The goal was to design a fully generalized protocol that will be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  The goal is to design a fully generalized protocol that is
```
I'm suggesting "goal is" because "goal was" made me wonder if the goal changed and is now something different. (But this is a small point so of course feel free to ignore, as always.)

  developed and published, but this overview is much more comprehensive.
  It takes readers in <!-- linear :-) --> order from fundamental
  concepts to the specific algorithms being implemented.  It ends with
  links to several Bitcoin Core pull requests that implement parts of
  cluster mempool.

## Changes to services and client software

*In this monthly feature, we highlight interesting updates to Bitcoin
wallets and services.*

- **ZEUS adds BOLT12 offers and BIP353 support:**
  The [v0.8.5][zeus v0.8.5] release leverages the [TwelveCash][twelve cash
  website] service to support [offers][topic offers] and [BIP353][] (see
  [Newsletter #307][news307 bip353]).

- **Phoenix adds BOLT12 offers and BIP353 support:**
  The [Phoenix 2.3.1][phoenix 2.3.1] release added offers support and [Phoenix
  2.3.3][phoenix 2.3.3] added [BIP353][] support.

- **Stack Wallet adds RBF and CPFP support:**
  Stack Wallet's [v2.1.1][stack wallet v2.1.1] release added support for fee bumping using
  [RBF][topic rbf] and [CPFP][topic cpfp] as well as [Tor][topic anonymity
  networks] support.

- **BlueWallet adds silent payment send support:**

>   In the [v6.6.7][bluewallet v6.6.7] release, BlueWallet added ability to send to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  In the [v6.6.7][bluewallet v6.6.7] release, BlueWallet added the ability to send to
```

  [silent payment][topic silent payments] addresses.

- **BOLT12 Playground announced:**
  Strike [announced][strike bolt12 playground] a testing environment for BOLT12
  offers. The project uses Docker to initiate and automate wallets, channels, and payments
  across different LN implementations.

- **Moosig testing repository announced:**

>   Ledger has published a python-based testing [repository][moosig github] for using

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Ledger has published a Python-based testing [repository][moosig github] for using
```

  [MuSig2][topic musig] and [BIP388][] wallet [policies for descriptor wallets][news302 bip388].

- **Real-time Stratum visualization tool released:**
  The [stratum.work website][stratum.work], based on [previous research][b10c

>   nostr] displays real time Stratum messages from a variety of Bitcoin mining

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  nostr] displays real-time Stratum messages from a variety of Bitcoin mining
```

>   pools, with [source available][stratum work github].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  pools, with [source code available][stratum work github].
```

  creating a key for scriptless threshold signatures must generate
  a large random-like number without disclosing that number to anyone
  else.  However, each person must also distribute derived shares of
  that number across the other users so that a threshold number of
  them can create a signature if that key is unavailable.  Each user
  must verify that the information they received from every other user
  was generated correctly.  Several key generation protocols for
  performing these steps exist, but they assume the key-generating users
  have access to a communication channel that is encrypted and
  authenticated between individual pairs of users and that also allows
  uncensorable authenticated broadcast from each user to all other
  users.  The _Chill distributed key generation_ (ChillDKG) protocol
  combines a well-known key generation algorithm for FROST with
  additional modern cryptographic primitives and simple algorithms to
  provide the necessary secure, authenticated, and provably uncensored
  communication.

  Encryption and authentication between participants starts with an
  [elliptic curve diffie-hellman][ecdh] (ECDH) exchange.  Proof of

>   non-censorship is obtained by each participant using their base key to
>   sign a transcript of the session from its start to its end, where the

Reviewer 4: This wording sounds like each participant obtains the proof using his key however I believe it's the other way: each participant _sends_ the transcript signed by his key and all the others receive it and verify the signature.

Not sure what would be better wording, at least this could work:

```suggestion
  non-censorship is sent by each participant using their base key to
  sign a transcript of the session from its start to its end, where the
```

  scriptless threshold public key is produced.  Before accepting the
  threshold public key as correct, each participant verifies every other
  participant's signed session transcript.

  The goal was to design a fully generalized protocol that will be
  usable in all cases where people want to generate keys for

>   Bitcoin-style scriptless threshold signatures.  Additionally, the

Reviewer 2: This is somewhat misleading. ChillDKG works for FROST, but it could be insecure when used in other signing schemes. See section ["Use ChillDKG only for FROST"](https://github.com/BlockstreamResearch/bip-frost-dkg?tab=readme-ov-file#use-chilldkg-only-for-frost). In short, this is because ChillDKG participants can bias the final key (which is fine for FROST).

Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo],
[Lightning BLIPs][blips repo], [Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition
repo], and [BINANAs][binana repo]._

- [Bitcoin Core #26596][] implements the new `BerkeleyRODatabase` for migrating
  legacy wallets to [descriptor][topic descriptors] wallets. This change does
  not deprecate legacy wallets or the legacy `BerkeleyDatabase`. A new
  `LegacyDataSPKM` class has been created that contains only the essential data
  and functions needed to load a legacy wallet for migration. See Newsletter
  [#305][news305 bdb] for an introduction to the `BerkeleyRODatabase`.

- [Core Lightning #7455][] enhances `connectd`'s [onion message][topic onion
  messages] handling by implementing forwarding via both `short_channel_id`
  (SCID) and `node_id`. Onion messages are now always enabled, and incoming

>   messages are rate limited to 4 per second. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  messages are rate limited to 4 per second.
```

- [Eclair #2878][] enables the [route blinding][topic rv routing] and channel
  quiescence features as optional, since they're now fully implemented and part
  of the BOLT specification. An Eclair node advertises support for these
  features to its peers, but has `route_blinding` disabled by default because it
  will not forward [blinded payments][topic rv routing] that do not use
  [trampoline routing][topic trampoline payments]. See Newsletter [#309][news309

>   quiescence] for an introduction to channel quiescence. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  quiescence] for an introduction to channel quiescence.
```

- [Rust Bitcoin #2646][] introduces new inspectors for script and witness
  structures such as `redeem_script` to ensure that compliance with [BIP16][]
  rules regarding P2SH spending, `taproot_control_block` and `taproot_annex` to
  ensure compliance with [BIP341][] rules and `witness_script` to ensure that
  the P2WSH witness script complies with [BIP141][] rules. See Newsletter
  [#309][news309 p2sh].

- [BDK #1489][] updates `bdk_electrum` to use merkle proofs for transaction
  verification. It fetches merkle proofs and block headers alongside
  transactions, validates that transactions are in confirmed blocks before
  inserting anchors, and removes re-org handling from `full_scan`. The PR also
  introduces `ConfirmationBlockTime` as a new anchor type, replacing previous
  types.

- [BIPs #1599][] adds [BIP46][] for a derivation scheme for HD wallets that
  create [timelocked][topic timelocks] addresses used for [fidelity
  bonds][news161 fidelity] in JoinMarket-style coinjoin transactions. Fidelity
  bonds improve the sybil resistance of the protocol by creating a reputation
  system where makers prove their intentional sacrifice of the time value of

>   money by timelocking bitcoin. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  money by timelocking bitcoin.
```

- [BOLTs #1173][] makes the `channel_update` field optional in failure [onion
  messages][topic onion messages]. Nodes now ignore this field outside the
  current payment to prevent fingerprinting of HTLC senders. The change aims to
  discourage payment delays due to outdated channel parameters while still

>   allowing nodes with stale gossip data to benefit from updates when needed. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  allowing nodes with stale gossip data to benefit from updates when needed.
```

  second.

- [Eclair #2878][] makes the [route blinding][topic rv routing] and channel
  quiescence features optional, since they're now fully implemented and part
  of the BOLT specification (see Newsletters [#245][news245 blind] and
  [#309][news309 stfu]). An Eclair node advertises support for these
  features to its peers, but has `route_blinding` disabled by default because it
  will not forward [blinded payments][topic rv routing] that do not use
  [trampoline routing][topic trampoline payments].

- [Rust Bitcoin #2646][] introduces new inspectors for script and witness
  structures such as `redeem_script` to ensure that compliance with [BIP16][]
  rules regarding P2SH spending, `taproot_control_block` and `taproot_annex` to
  ensure compliance with [BIP341][] rules and `witness_script` to ensure that
  the P2WSH witness script complies with [BIP141][] rules. See Newsletter
  [#309][news309 p2sh].

- [BDK #1489][] updates `bdk_electrum` to use merkle proofs for simplified
  payment verification (SPV). It fetches merkle proofs and block headers alongside
  transactions, validates that transactions are in confirmed blocks before

>   inserting anchors, and removes re-org handling from `full_scan`. The PR also

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  inserting anchors, and removes reorg handling from `full_scan`. The PR also
```

  introduces `ConfirmationBlockTime` as a new anchor type, replacing previous
  types.

- [BIPs #1599][] adds [BIP46][] for a derivation scheme for HD wallets that
  create [timelocked][topic timelocks] addresses used for [fidelity

>   bonds][news161 fidelity] as used for JoinMarket-style coinjoin market matching. Fidelity

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  bonds][news161 fidelity] as used for JoinMarket-style [coinjoin][topic coinjoin] market matching. Fidelity
```

  bonds improve the sybil resistance of the protocol by creating a reputation
  system where makers prove their intentional sacrifice of the time value of
  money by timelocking bitcoin.

- [BOLTs #1173][] makes the `channel_update` field optional in failure [onion
  messages][topic onion messages]. Nodes now ignore this field outside the
  current payment to prevent fingerprinting of [HTLC][topic htlc] senders. The change aims to
  discourage payment delays due to outdated channel parameters while still
  allowing nodes with stale gossip data to benefit from updates when needed.

- [BLIPs #25][] adds [BLIP25][] describing how to allow forwarding HTLCs that
  underpay the encoded onion value. For example, Alice provides a lightning
  invoice to Bob but she has no payment channels, so when Bob pays, Carol
  (Alice’s LSP) creates a channel on the fly. To allow Carol to take a fee from

>   Alice to cover the cost of the initial on-chain fee that creates a [JIT channel][topic jit channels],

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  Alice to cover the cost of the initial onchain fee that creates a [JIT channel][topic jit channels],
```
